MALAYSIA 's aggressive move into the information age could not come in a more opportune time .
With the convergence of communications and information technologies ( IT ) coupled with the coming of age for the Internet and its related technologies , the stage is set for Malaysians to seize the chance to transform into a knowledge society and become worthy opponents/players in the global market space .
The Internet , the global network of computers , is now far reaching into the country - extending its embrace to include every nook and cranny of the nation - opening doors to not only a diverse range of information sources but also an exhaustive list of possibilities to create new applications which add value to people 's lives .
In the business world , the Internet - through intranet and extranet solutions - has become an invaluable tool for companies to harness so as to gain a competitive edge .
The solutions are also vital components in developing the borderless marketing flagship application which is a vital element for spearheading the development of the Multimedia Super Corridor ( MSC ) project .
The application will create the necessary framework and infrastructure to support electronic commerce ( e-commerce ) initiatives in the country .
However , it is important to note that installing or implementing Internet technologies for technology 's sake would not ensure instant success .
For e-commerce to flourish with full-blown end-to-end business transactions , strategic planning which incorporates both business and technology plans that are complementary is necessary for an organisation to see feasible returns on investment .
Intranets , through the use of Internet technology , are positioned as a platform for companies to optimise , expand and transform new channels of business .
When strategically implemented , an intranet solution will provide the ability to mediate mission-critical , decision support functions in organisations .
It will also help further improve communications and collaboration at all levels in an organisation .
With intranets in place , it is only logical for organisations to respectively link the network to other companies ' for extended business purposes through extranets .
While this will enable the sharing of information among enterprises , security issues such as firewalls and encryption as well as access and control procedures , and the trust levels that enterprises have with each other will emerge and there will be a need to address them .
Other than usage in business , Internet technology is also beginning to infiltrate the lifestyle domain .
`` Smart homes '' have emerged bringing a wealth of information and entertainment to families over telecommunications lines .
The art of socialising is also experiencing a change where Net/virtual relationships are fast overtaking or becoming parallel with the normal human relationships .
Whether this would prove positive or otherwise towards society in the future is yet to be seen .
All in all , the Internet has a lot to offer .
However , its value and benefits are only as good as how we use it .
