JERUSALEM ( AP ) _ Top Israeli officials sent strong new signals Sunday that Israel wants to withdraw from southern Lebanon , where a costly war of attrition has been steadily claiming soldiers ' lives .
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told his Cabinet on Sunday that Israel was willing to withdraw from southern Lebanon provided Israel 's northern frontier could be secured .
`` If the Lebanese government will cooperate with us in making appropriate security arrangements in south Lebanon , we will be happy to get out of Lebanon in the framework of implementation of U.N. Resolution 425 , '' Netanyahu told his ministers .
That 1978 resolution calls for Israel 's unconditional withdrawal from the self-declared security zone it occupies in south Lebanon , and for the deployment of the Lebanese army and U.N. forces to ensure security along the Lebanese-Israeli border .
On Friday , Netanyahu said he had `` no qualms '' about implementing the U.N. resolution , as long as Israel had `` the necessary security safeguards . ''
Cabinet minister Michael Eitan said Sunday that Netanyahu 's remarks marked a substantive change in Israel 's position .
`` We will defend our north from the international border , '' said Eitan , the science minister .
`` No one wants to stay in Lebanon ; thus we think it better to withdraw . ''
Uri Lubrani , Israel 's top official for Lebanon affairs , also suggested Israel was willing to modify its political goals in Lebanon .
`` This is a new thing ... it means that we are willing to talk today _ full stop _ about security , '' Lubrani told Israel 's Channel One .
`` We have gotten off the issue of peace , off the issue of normalization . ''
As the death toll in Lebanon has mounted , the Israeli government has been faced with a growing grassroots movement calling for Israel 's unilateral withdrawal from Lebanon .
Since 1985 _ when the Israelis created a security buffer zone southern Lebanon _ nearly 200 Israeli soldiers have been killed fighting Hezbollah and other guerrillas .
Last week , Hezbollah fighters killed three Israeli soldiers and seriously wounded six others .
The Israelis suffered a record 39 deaths in southern Lebanon last year .
In addition , 73 soldiers were killed en route to Lebanon when two military helicopters crashed last February .
The Maariv newspaper said Sunday that Netanyahu 's comments last week were in response to signals from Syria that it wants to renew the long-stalled peace talks between the two countries .
The newspaper , quoting `` secret reports , '' said Syria had indicated its interest in resuming talks in remarks made last week by the Syrian ambassador to Washington , Walid Mualem , in a lecture to a closed forum in Baltimore .
Two top aides to Netanyahu , political adviser Uzi Arad and Cabinet Secretary Danny Naveh , left for Europe on Sunday , apparently to investigate the Syrian issue , the newspaper said .
Israel-Syrian talks have been cut off for nearly two years .
Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai was the first senior Israeli official to refer to U.N. resolution 425 in a speech six weeks ago , saying at the time he was willing to withdraw troops in exchange for guarantees that Israel would not be attacked .
